**Kubernetes Commands Practiced – Day 1**



**1. Create Kubernetes resources**



Command:

kubectl apply -f pod.yaml



Purpose:

Creates the Pod defined in the YAML file.







**2. View all Pods**



Command:

kubectl get pods



Purpose:

Displays all running Pods in the current namespace.



**3. View all Services**



Command:

kubectl get services



Purpose:

Displays all available Services in the cluster.





**4. View detailed information about a Pod**



Command:

kubectl describe pod sample-pytorch-pod



Purpose:

Shows detailed information about the Pod, including its status, events, labels, and resource details.





**5. View Pod logs**



Command:

kubectl logs sample-pytorch-pod



Purpose:

Displays the logs generated by the container running inside the Pod.





**6. Access the Pod terminal**



Command:

kubectl exec -it sample-pytorch-pod -- /bin/bash



Purpose:

Opens an interactive terminal session inside the running container.





7\. Delete a Pod



Command:

kubectl delete pod sample-pytorch-pod



Purpose:

Deletes the specified Pod from the cluster.



8\. Delete resources using the YAML file



Command:

kubectl delete -f pod.yaml



Purpose:

Deletes all Kubernetes resources created from the specified YAML file.



\--------------------------------------------------



**Key Learning**



• Learned how to deploy a Pod using a YAML file.

• Understood how to inspect and manage Kubernetes resources.

• Learned how to view logs and access a running container.

• Practiced deleting Kubernetes resources safely.

